https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/documentation/Darwin/Reference/ManPages/man8/diskutil.8.html

diskutil -- modify, verify and repair local disks

diskutil [quiet] verb [options]

diskutil manipulates the structure of local disks.  It provides information about, and allows the
     administration of, the partitioning schemes, layouts, and formats of disks. This includes hard disks,
     solid state disks, optical discs, CoreStorage volumes, and AppleRAID sets.  It generally manipulates
     whole volumes instead of individual files and directories.

mountDisk device
                Mount an entire disk (all mountable volumes).  You should specify a whole disk, but all vol-umes volumes
                umes of the whole disk are attempted to be mounted even if you specify a partition.

list [-plist] [device]
                List disks.  If no argument is given, then all disks and all of their partitions are listed.

                If -plist is specified, then a property list will be emitted instead of the normal user-readable userreadable
                readable output.  If a device is specified, then instead of listing all families of whole
                disks and their partitions, only one such family is listed.  In that case, specifying either
                the whole disk or any of its slices will work.

                A script could interpret the results of the diskutil list -plist output and use diskutil
                info -plist as well as diskutil listFilesystems -plist for more detailed information.

                See the DEVICES section below for the various forms that the device specification may take
                for this and all of the other diskutil verbs.

                The top-to-bottom appearance of partitions in diskutil list always indicates the on-disk
                ordering.  BSD disk identifiers may, in certain circumstances, not appear in slice-numerical
                order when viewed this way.  This is normal and is likely the result of a recent partition
                map editing operation in which volumes were kept mounted.
